---
layout: post
title:  "Not Day 7"
date:   2024-05-06 23:59:59 +0800
categories: chained 
---

# All work today.. 

Figured out using re-writing paths with Kubernetes nginx ingress, securing ingress with TLS. Some realisations on frontend.

# On nginx ingress
1. Use annotations to specify 
    <ol type="a">
        <li>That you want to use regex to capture groups</li>
        <li>Which capture groups to use rewrite</li>
    </ol>
1. Type should be `ImplementationSpecific` 
1. Good luck with your regex, I guess? 
1. If annotations are wrong, how do you debug? 
1. Turns out the backend service we wrote probably has issues with subpaths.

## On securing ingress with TLS
1. If using `minikube`, install `mkcert` to have a local CA (? I'm probably butchering this), then generate key and cert. 
1. Create a k8s secret using key and cert, in the same namespace as your ingress.
1. Use `minikube` cli to configure ingress, something like telling it where the location of your cert is.
1. Restart `minikube` 
1. Add `tls` section to ingress spec, specifying host to secure, and identifying the secret to use. 


# On frontend 
1. Is running nginx image with root bad? 
1. Docker RUN command didn't execute until a container was instantiated because the script was at `/docker-entrypoint.d/script.sh` 
1. The script itself allowed configuration of the frontend to be done at runtime. It replaced a few "parameters" e.g. the base URL of the frontend. 
1. Because of the above, it is important to build the image without the environment variables set, even in `.env`, since build of the static files occurs outside (before) the building of the Docker image. 

# On people
1. More patience needs to be indented.
