---
layout: post
title:  "Day 4"
date:   2024-05-01 15:00:00 +0800
categories: solo freedom
---

# Approaches to fetching data according to the tut
1. APIs
    - When?
        - Using 3rd party APIs, so route through your API layer
        - Fetching data from the client side, so want to avoid exposing database secrets to client
    - How?
        - Use Route Handlers in Next.js
1. ORMs
1. SQL
    - When?
        - Complicated logic? 
        - React Server Components (fetching data from server), skip API layer and query database directly. This does not risk exposing database secrets. (How?)


# React Server components to access backend resources
- NJS uses React Server Components by default 
    - Server components support async tasks, so no need to use `useEffect`, `useState`
    - Server components execute on the server side, so expensive data fetches run on the server and you just send results to client 
    - No need API layer 
- Vercel Postgres SDK protects against SQL injection


# Network waterfalls
The following 3 calls `fetch*` are calls to the database, and in the code below, they occur sequentially. i.e. `fetchLatestInvoices` cannot start until `fetchRevenue` completes.
```js
const revenue = await fetchRevenue();
const latestInvoices = await fetchLatestInvoices();
const { 
    numberOfCustomers, 
    numberOfInvoices, 
    totalPaidInvoices, 
    totalPendingInvoices 
} = await fetchCardData();
```


# Parallel data fetching using JS patterns

To execute all 3 in parallel, we can use `Promise.all`

> Note: below not actually tested lol.

```js
const data = await Promise.all([
    fetchRevenue(),
    fetchLatestInvoices(),
    fetchCardData()
])
```

> By default, Next.js prerenders routes to improve performance, this is called Static Rendering. So if your data changes, it won't be reflected in your dashboard.
- When does this happen? When someone enters the site for the first time? Compile time?

# What static rendering is and how it can improve your application's performance.
- Static rendering occurs are build time (deployment)
- During revalidation (what is this?)
- Result is distributed and cached in CDN


# What dynamic rendering is and when to use it.
Content is rendered on the server for each user at request time (when the user visits the page)
Use when
- Need real time data
- User-specific content
- When inputs are only known at request time e.g. search parameters, cookies

# Different approaches to make your dashboard dynamic.
`@vercel/postgres` does not set caching semantics.
Use `unstable_noStore` inside server components to opt out of static rendering 


# `useSearchParams` vs `props: searchParams` 
- `useSearchParams` when on client side 
- pass props to server side to use in db calls


# Debouncing
When using `useSearchParams`, we are updating the URL on every keystroke, and also making DB calls every keystroke. 

Debouncing is a programming practice that limits the rate at which a function can fire. In our case, you only want to query the database when the user has stopped typing.

1. Trigger Event: When an event that should be debounced (like a keystroke in the search box) occurs, a timer starts.
1. Wait: If a new event occurs before the timer expires, the timer is reset.
1. Execution: If the timer reaches the end of its countdown, the debounced function is executed.

use library: `use-debounce`

# React Server Actions
- Run async code on the server side 
- Removes need to create API endpoints 
- Invoked from

# Forms and server components
uhhh 

# `formData` object with validation
Use `zod` to create a schema for form validation 

# `revalidatePath` API to revalidate client cache
1. Assume you have a page that has data already loaded
1. A user enters data that is updated in the DB
1. You need to display the updated data back on that page. So use `revalidatePath` to force a cache clearing so that a request is made to the server again.

# Dynamic route segments